Currently, my research is focused on pool testing (also called group testing), which serves as a cost-effective testing method for detection and surveillance of infectious diseases. With the recent advances in assay technology (e.g., nucleic acid amplification), the use of pooling is becoming increasingly popular. For example, the American Red Cross screens millions of blood donors every year for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV) through pooled blood serums. The state of Iowa, as part of the nationwide program of infectious diseases, implements a two-stage pooling algorithm to test the state residents for chlamydia and gonorrhea.

The simplest pooling algorithm, introduced by Dorfman (1943) for efficient screening of the US soldiers for syphilis, involves testing in two hierarchical stages. In stage 1, pools, formed by mixing a set of individual specimens (e.g., blood, urine, swabs, etc.), are tested for the presence of a disease. In stage 2, the members of the pools that test negative are tested one by one for case identification purposes. Based on the seminal work, statistical research in this direction has developed profusely and the application of pooling has been widespread. As pooling data are inherently complex, the statistical methods which accommodate such data are also complicated. Consequently, implementing the research finding in real world problems is non-trivial, especially for the practitioners who do not have much background in statistics. Recognizing this as an important issue in public health applications, I write computer programs in R, in addition to my work on statistical methodology.

I spent a great deal of time to enhance the efficiency and user-friendliness of the programs. Some parts that involve compute-intensive methods such as the Gibbs sampler and the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm are written in FORTRAN and called from R through the Dynamic Link Library (dll). I believe the code is optimized (or nearly optimized). Currently, programing resources are uploaded for the following papers.

(1) Warasi, M., McMahan, C., Tebbs, J., and Bilder, C. (2020+). Estimating the prevalence of two or more diseases using outcomes from multiplex group testing. Under review.

(2) Warasi, M., McMahan, C., Tebbs, J., and Bilder, C. (2017). Group testing regression models with dilution submodels. Statistics in Medicine, 36, 4860-4872.

(3) Huang, X. and Warasi, M. (2017). Maximum likelihood estimators in regression models for error-prone group testing data. Scandinavian Journal of Statistics, 44, 918-931.

(4) Warasi, M., Tebbs, J., McMahan, C., and Bilder, C. (2016). Estimating the prevalence of multiple diseases from two-stage hierarchical pooling. Statistics in Medicine, 35, 3851-3864.
